---
id: blockchain
title: Blockchain
---

## Why not Blockchain?

By virtue of blockchain principles, there's a couple of issues that arise. The
major one being that everyone has to agree on the state of the canonical chain,
and therefore there can be only one network actor at any given time. Different
chains implement different strategies for electing this actor to alleviate the
risk of compromise, but the fundamental issue remains, and hence, the
long-standing problem of scalability.

## Calimero vs Blockchain

Calimero fundamentally rethinks the problem and offers an alternative approach,
local-first execution with eventual consistency. This means that each actor can
independently drive their own local state, and the network will eventually
reconcile to the same state. Essentially pegging the scalability threshold to
the number of actors in the network, and executions are practically
instantaneous.

State reconciliation is context-aware, meaning that all activity revolves around
an instance of an app. This means that participants of a context only have to
synchronize with each other, and not the entire network. This is in stark
contrast to blockchains, where everyone is forced to synchronize with everyone
else and this competition is reflected in gas fees. Calimero doesn't have gas
fees, and the cost of execution is directly borne by the actor.

Blockchains achieve integrity through transparency, which is a double-edged
sword, essentially precluding you from using it in private environments.
Calimero however, leverages the direct-actor relationship to encrypt all network
traffic between them, and therefore, the network is inherently private.

Calimero is also designed to be embeddable, meaning that client apps themselves
become the network actors, and the network is the app itself. This is in stark
contrast to blockchains, where the network is a separate entity from the client
apps.
