---
id: manifesto
title: 'The Data Sovereignty Manifesto'
---

## Vision & Mission

We envision a digital world where users decide how and when their data is
stored, processed, and accessed. In such a future, individuals will be
compensated with a share of the profit, if they provide consent for their data
to be utilized by a specific entity for a specific context. Our framework will
ensure that data sharing is consensual, secure, and transparent, allowing users
to reclaim their privacy and digital autonomy.

In the digital age, the concept of privacy has evolved significantly.
Traditional notions of privacy, often centred around the control of personal
information, have been challenged by the pervasive nature of digital
technologies. In a world where your data flows freely across the internet, and
is processed by centralized servers, the control over your personal information
is often lost. A future dominated by AI, where your digital personalities can be
replicated and exploited, calls for urgent safeguarding of contextual integrity
and data privacy. We aim to empower individuals to take charge of their digital
identities.

Contextual integrity is a theory developed by Helen Nissenbaum, that suggests
privacy is preserved when information flows appropriately according to social
norms within specific contexts. Rather than focusing solely on the individual's
control over their data, contextual integrity considers the context-specific
norms that govern information sharing and usage. Different social settings or
spheres (e.g., healthcare, financial records, personal relationships and
similar), different actors, attributes and conditions under which information is
shared, each have their own expectations for information flow. By examining
these parameters, contextual integrity provides a nuanced understanding of
privacy that is sensitive to the specific social contexts in which information
is used.

The digital environment involves numerous actors, including users, service
providers, third-party advertisers, and data brokers. This complexity increases
the difficulty of tracking and managing information flows. Bad actors exploit
data streams, leading to breaches of privacy and trust. We believe that every
individual should have the power to control their personal data. Our mission is
to build a peer-to-peer ecosystem that enables users to dictate who they share
their data with and how data access is managed.

Digital platforms often merge multiple contexts, making it difficult to
distinguish appropriate information flows. For example, social media combines
personal, professional and public spheres, challenging traditional privacy
norms. Digital technologies enable the collection and analysis of vast amounts
of diverse data, often beyond what individuals explicitly share. This includes
metadata, behavioral data, and similar, which complicates consent and control
and often gives away much more about the user than the user actually understands
or wants to share. The principles governing data transmission in the digital
world are often non-transparent and dynamic. Terms of service and privacy
policies frequently change, and the mechanisms of data sharing and processing
are not always transparent to users.

## Rationale and Addressing the Problem

◦ Legal frameworks should consider the specific contexts in which data is used.
This means creating sector-specific privacy regulations that account for the
unique norms and expectations of each context.

◦ Digital platforms must be transparent about their data practices and
accountable for maintaining appropriate information flows. This includes clear
communication about how data is collected, used, and shared, as well as
mechanisms for users to hold platforms accountable.

◦ Empowering users with tools to manage their privacy in context-specific ways
is crucial. This can involve granular privacy settings, consent mechanisms that
reflect contextual norms, and educational initiatives to inform users about
their privacy rights and risks.

◦ Designers and developers of digital technologies should incorporate contextual
integrity principles into the design of systems and services. This means
considering the social contexts in which their technologies will be used and
ensuring that information flows align with context-specific norms.

◦ Regulators have tried to address this issue by implementing data protection
laws. However, in practice, there are no effective tools to solve the problem
easily, and the regulations are prone to human error. This results in
unnecessary bureaucracy, without solving the problem at its core.

## Core Values and Beliefs

**Privacy**

We believe that privacy is a fundamental human right.

**Ownership & Control**

Data should be owned and managed by the user whose data it is, not by large
corporations, big tech, or the government. Individuals should have complete
control over their digital footprint.

**Transparency & Security**

Data management processes must be transparent and understandable. Personal data
should be protected against unauthorized access and misuse.

## Goals and Objectives

The need for data sovereignty is urgent. Daily data breaches compromise medical
records, putting lives at risk, financial records are disclosed, leading to
theft, and personal secrets can be exposed without consent. In a world where
data is a valuable asset, it is essential to create a fair and secure
environment. Contextual integrity, which addresses data privacy in the digital
age, must be upheld to protect individual rights and foster trust in digital
interactions. Our goals include:

◦ Creating a robust, secure, and user-friendly peer-to-peer protocol for data
access control.

◦ Providing tools and resources to enable builders to develop Self Sovereign
Apps, where users can manage their data independently.

◦ Target developers to raise awareness, join the movement, and build products
within this new framework.

◦ Educating the public about the importance of data sovereignty and how to
protect their digital identity.

◦ Developing user economy models, for the users to be compensated when their
data is used by profit-making entities.

## Join the Movement

The future of our digital world depends on the actions we take today. By
reclaiming control over our personal data, we can ensure privacy, security, and
fairness for all. We call on developers to build innovative solutions that
prioritize user-controlled data management. We urge individuals to take greater
care of their digital identity and privacy, advocating for a future where
personal data is respected and protected. Join us in creating a fair and secure
digital world. Let us rise to the challenge and create a digital environment
where data sovereignty is the norm, not the exception. Because it is YOUR data,
and YOU should control what happens to it!
