---
id: use-cases
title: Use Cases
---

There are a lot of use cases where Calimero can be used and here are some of
them:

## Private DAOs Management

Migrate sensitive on-chain and off-chain data into a DAO-owned private Calimero
application, enabling you to interact with the base chain of the DAO. DAO
members keep the core contract logic on-chain, while shielding all the sensitive
data.

## Decentralized Voting Systems

Enhance trust in voting by creating a secure and tamper-proof voting process
application, ensuring each vote is counted accurately and cannot be altered.
This technology enhances trust in voting by providing verifiable and immutable
records while protecting voter privacy. It empowers voters, reduces the risk of
fraud, and promotes democratic participation through a transparent and secure
voting platform.

## Decentralized Social Platforms

Build social experiences which need scalable but private data like social
groups, direct messages and others, while eliminating high transaction costs
(gas fees associated with blockchains). This can include exclusive groups and
gated communities based on ownership of NFTs or token payments which would allow
participation and decryption of the community data content.

## Decentralized Productivity (DeProd) SaaS

Create a decentralized productivity tools suite by self hosting your data on
Calimeroâ€™s private applications and move away from the control of centralized
entities. The new platform would mitigate the burden of lifetime deals and hard
migration processes for the current users of Productivity SaaS solutions.

## Decentralized Gig Economy

Disrupt the current gig economy players and compose a fully decentralized ride
sharing, freelancing, temporary work, mechanical turk platform, or any other
shared economy model where each network participant gets their fair share of the
profits.

## Trustless Gaming

Resolve the transparency and verification problems in games with turn mechanics
(i.e. Battleship), and in those where private data holds significant importance
(i.e. poker).

## Decentralized Edge Compute

Most of the general compute today happens on cloud service because that is where
most of the data lives. With Calimero, all the applications data is stored
locally, whereas Calimero enables edge compute on that data. Combined with the
use of decentralized AI and Edge Inference LLMs, there are numerous use cases
how Calimero can enhance user experience: Edge AI on users data for social spam
filtering, e-commerce shopping recommendations across channels, to name a few.
This would allow users to finally maximize the endless possibilities from their
data, on their own rules.

For example, when you used to purchase from a certain merchant, the data was
fully controlled by that merchant or the platform where the data was hosted,
which would yield to your recommendations being exclusively tied to that
merchant. But if the data would have lived on your device, your data
recommendations would have been across various market channels, and not
exclusively tied to that specific merchant.

## Decentralized Identity Verification

Create a private Calimero application network which provides transparent and
trusted identity verification for service providers. With Calimero, sensitive
procedures such as opening a bank account or applying for Visas would not
require service providers to host the data of their users at centralized
entities any more.

## Decentralized Intellectual Property Management

The traditional platforms for managing and enforcing intellectual property
rights are not fully transparent, resulting in creators not being able to
maximize the utility of their work. Developing a decentralized IP management
platform would result in a fairer compensation system for all creators.
