---
id: what-is-calimero
title: What is Calimero
---

## What is Calimero Network

Calimero is a development framework that enables building and running
peer-to-peer Self-Sovereign applications focusing on data ownership and
harnessing the power of verified off-chain computing.

### Framework Architecture

The Calimero framework is built around several key components that work together
to create a seamless development experience:

**Client Nodes**: These are the core participants in the network - any device or
computer that runs Calimero applications. Each node acts as a gateway that runs
applications and connects with other peers, encapsulating the complexities of
decentralized networking.

**WebAssembly (WASM) Applications**: Applications in Calimero are compiled to
WebAssembly format, ensuring secure, isolated execution. Each application runs
in its own sandboxed environment within the WASM virtual machine, preventing
interference between different applications while maintaining high performance.

**Contexts**: The heart of the Calimero ecosystem, contexts are
application-specific networks that enable direct communication between users.
Each context consolidates all necessary components into a secure, isolated
environment where participants only synchronize with each other, not the entire
network.

**Runtime Environment**: The framework provides a robust runtime that manages
multiple applications concurrently, handles state synchronization, ensures
atomic transactions, and provides scoped storage for each context. This runtime
abstracts away the complexity of distributed systems from developers.

**Development SDKs**: Calimero provides comprehensive development tools:

- **Protocol SDK**: For building the core application logic in Rust, defining
  how applications behave and communicate
- **Client SDK**: For creating user interfaces in TypeScript, handling
  authentication and data interactions

**Specialized Nodes**: For applications requiring additional capabilities,
specialized nodes provide services like encrypted storage, delegated execution,
and administrative functions while maintaining the decentralized nature of the
network.

## Core Principles

Calimero is built on the principle of **local-first execution with eventual
consistency**. This means that each actor can independently drive their own
local state, and the network will eventually reconcile to the same state. This
approach pegs scalability to the number of actors in the network, making
executions practically instantaneous.

### Context-Aware State Reconciliation

All activity in Calimero revolves around an instance of an app, called a
context. Participants of a context only synchronize with each other, not the
entire network. This eliminates the need for global consensus and gas fees, with
execution costs borne directly by the actor.

### Inherent Privacy

Calimero leverages direct-actor relationships to encrypt all network traffic
between participants, making the network inherently private. Unlike blockchains
that achieve integrity through transparency, Calimero enables private
environments while maintaining data integrity.

### Embeddable Architecture

Calimero is designed to be embeddable, meaning that client apps themselves
become the network actors, and the network is the app itself. This creates a
seamless integration where the framework becomes part of your application rather
than a separate entity.

## Open Web tech stack

Calimero is designed to complement and enhance existing technologies rather than
replace them:

### Blockchain Integration

While Calimero offers an alternative to traditional blockchain approaches, it
can also integrate with blockchains for specific use cases. The framework can
leverage blockchain for settlement, identity verification, or as a source of
truth when needed, while handling the majority of application logic locally.

### Storage Solutions

Calimero includes built-in encrypted data storage capabilities, but can also
integrate with existing storage solutions like IPFS when additional storage
requirements arise. The framework focuses on compute while providing flexible
storage options.

### Zero-Knowledge (ZK) Enhancements

ZK solutions can complement Calimero by providing enhanced privacy features
within its framework. This combination offers the best of both worlds -
Calimero's local-first execution with ZK's privacy guarantees - without
inheriting the synchronization complexities of traditional ZK implementations.

The rest of this documentation explores how to use Calimero with these and other
technologies to build powerful self-sovereign applications.
